## 7. Acquaintance with creating style sheet, CSS properties and styling.

### Cascading Style Sheet(CSS)
Cascading Style Sheet is used to set the style in web pages that contain HTML elements.
It sets the background color, font-size, font-family, color, …
etc property of elements on a web page.  There are three types of
CSS which are given below:


- Types of CSS (Cascading Style Sheet)
    - Inline CSS
    - Internal or Embedded CSS
    - External CSS

**Example**

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
<title>Inline CSS</title>
<!-- External CSS import via link tag -->
<link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css"/>
<!-- Embedded CSS with style tag -->
<style>
.main {
    text-align:center;
}
</style>
</head>

<body>
<!-- Inline CSS -->
<p style = "color:#009900; font-size:50px;
font-style:italic; text-align:center;">
This text is Geen
</p>
</body>
</html>
```
*Figure 0.1*


**Inline CSS:**

Inline CSS contains the CSS property in the body section attached
with element is known as inline CSS. This kind of style is
specified within an HTML tag using the style attribute.
Example:

**Internal or Embedded CSS:**

This can be used when a single HTML document must be styled
uniquely. The CSS rule set should be within the HTML file in the
head section i.e the CSS is embedded within the HTML file.
Example:
**External CSS:**

External CSS contains separate CSS file which contains only style
property with the help of tag attributes (For example class, id,
heading, … etc). CSS property written in a separate file with
.css extension and should be linked to the HTML document using
link tag. This means that for each element, style can be set only
once and that will be applied across web pages.

Example:

The file given below contains CSS property. This file save with
.css extension. For Ex: styles.css

```css
body {
background-color:powderblue;
}
```

- **link** tag is used to link the external style sheet with the html
webpage.
- **href** attribute is used to specify the location of the external
style sheet file.
